The Oscar Generator

This package contained is code that allows you to auto-generate your own Oscar award winning script! My system uses the Oscar scripts from three famous Oscar screenwriters, Martin Scorcese, Woody Allen, and Quentin Tarantino. This code allows the user to select their favorite director, and then generate a "winning" script in that filmmaker’s style. The system works using a combination of a genetic algorithm, and Markov chains, in order to determine the dialogue for each character.

For my script generation, I focused on the concept of narrative prose generation, and for this I used the natural language toolkit, or NLTK. This software allowed me to take 3 scripts from each director, and tokenize each, to create a custom grammar for each director. Next, characters and their names are selected at random from the inspiring sets of scripts, and also though random generation, in order to create different stories than the movies used as an inspiring set. NLTK’s synonym, and antonym functions were also used greatly, in order to create variation, and randomness within the plots. Each individual line is generated by looking at the grammar of each director and using Markov chains to model the word choice used by each director. Each director uses certain words following a given word, and since we have 3 movies as an inspiring set to look at, we can see all the words that generally follow that specific word. Thus, using Markov chains places only words that make sense to follow a given word, but help provide the variability and randomness to get unique and interesting scripts at each generation.

I did not consider other cinematic elements, such as cinematography and humor, since I found through research and tests, that they are both hard to quantify, and difficult to replicate. Any attempts I made at generating humor, or cinematography, became a jumbled mess, or at best incoherent. I focused on the aspects I felt could be addressed with SPECS and could be quantified as being computationally “creative”. To evaluate my outputs, I modelled each outputted script next to the inspiring sets, to determine how similar, but distinct it was. I used a similar approach to as in my cookie project, where I weight occurrences in the middle the highest. That is, something that occurs a ton, or not much in the inspiring set is weight low, but things present a lot, but not in massive amounts, will be considered the best. ON a number scale, with 0 being not present, and 1 being present in every line of dialogue, an estimate would be weighting things in the 0.65 to .75 range the greatest. This is since these aspects are considered very important to that director’s style but isn’t over-used.

There were a great deal of personal challenges I went through when working on this assignment. I am assuming it is clear I did not get enough time to work on the project as I would have liked, in order to create a complete project, I am proud of. This has been a very difficult period of time for me, and more unexpected bumps in the road during break have derailed me further. I am sorry to be turning in something incomplete, but I am still happy to be able to share with you my current work, and my thinking and thought process behind it all. I really appreciate this.

Coding wise, I spent hours banning my head against NLTK. I have been struggling with tokenization since the poetry project. I am able to tokenize, I Am just struggling to use this to create a custom grammar, and simply can’t determine how to use my tokenized outputs. Since I was stressed that I was already behind, I didn’t reach out to ask for help, which I should have. I was determined to figure it out, and at many moments believed I could. However, this project was derailed by my stubbornness on implementing tokenization, and thus I have not progressed past this part in the code. Many of the ideas and architecture listed above easily could have been implemented, and more code should be written. However, I solely focused on getting this first part to work, and thus have not much else to show. Thus, I have learned a valuable lesson, that it is always better to ask for help, and that I should always focus on the parts of projects and assignments I know I can do, and then work from there.
